fix(docs): Improve knit binding information and instructions (#3842)
freesewing/freesewing: markdown/org/docs/sewing/knit-binding/en.md

Knit binding is a general term for a type of finish (typically) found on the neck or arm opening of T-shirts and other knitwear.

There are two varieties of this finish, a knit _band_ and actual knit _binding_.

## Knit band

> ![Like most T-shirts, the one this woman is wearing has a knit band at the neck opening.](knit_band.jpg)

Reviewer: There in only one person in the image, so it seems redundant to mention `woman` here (and also here https://github.com/freesewing/freesewing/pull/3842/files#diff-4fa783e1a15b6063eee9d93cd61d9c8d14b5e8190afc2469ad020bb412ba8f13R22)

```suggestion
![Like most T-shirts, this one has a knit band at the neck opening.](knit_band.jpg)
```

Knit band is what you typically find at the neck opening of your T-shirt. It's a strip of fabric that is folded double and attached to the edge of the garment
such that some of the fabric strip extends beyond the unfinished edge of garment.

This leaves an unfinished edge on the inside that is often sewn down by edge-stitching around the knit band.

### Knit binding

> ![This woman's grey undershirt and white T-shirt both have a knit binding at the neckline.](knit_binding.jpg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Both T-shirts have a knit binding at the neckline.](knit_binding.jpg)
```

Author: I changed the wording to "This grey undershirt and white T-shirt both" (since apparently one of the shirts isn't a T-shirt, technically).

Whether you're using a knit band or a knit binding finish, you are going to have to stretch your binding fabric for good results. That is, assuming you're not sewing a straight seam. Here's why:

<Note>

> The remainder of this documentation uses the term _binding_ to refer to both knit bands and knit binding.

Reviewer 2: I think it's fine to use only one term, since it makes the document easier to read, but 'binding' and 'band' are not the same thing. I suggest rephrasing to "The remainder of this documentation refers to _binding_, but applies equally to knit bands."

Author: I changed the wording as suggested.

![As the curve changes, so should the stretch](knitbinding3.png)

Straight seams exist, and perhaps uniformly curved seams exist too. But more often than not, the curvature of your seam will vary.

On a typical T-shirt neckline, the curve at the back of your neck is different from the front, and there's probably a somewhat tighter bend behind your shoulder seam.

On a slight curve, the difference between the inner and outer edge is not so big, and a little bit of stretch is all you need. But on a tighter curve, the difference between the inner and outer edge of your binding will be more significant. And, you'll need more stretch to accommodate for that.

So as you follow your seam and as it curves around necklines, shoulders, or design features, you will have to adapt the amount of stretch to the situation.

## You cannot calculate the length of your knit binding

> It may not be theoretically impossible, but it is practically impossible.

Reviewer 3: I am concerned about the fact that this change by removing personal language suggests this is always true. I don't think that is the case.

Reviewer: I've sewed 2 knit bands so far. What I do, after the pattern is printed and cut, is to use thread to measure the opening, then measure the thread length. I 'walk it off' on the opening using thread. 
Maybe this 'trick' can be written down in this document as well?

What this refers to IMO, is that it may not be possible or feasible to get that measurement in the digital version of the pattern. 

I'm not saying to not discuss it but personally I prefer documentation to be impersonal.

Reviewer 3: I think the reason there's no author stated is that this was written before Freesewing was on GitHub, hence my assumption Joost wrote this. 

We can definitely have a discussion in a contributor call about how we want the freesewing documentation around sewing to sound. 

I personally do my best to not change the original writing or tone when I change or review documentation unless there is an issue around clarity or some kind of error.

The length of your knit binding depends on the amount it needs to be stretched. This depends on the curves you have to follow and the width of the binding, not to mention the strength of its stretchiness. There are just too many parameters to take into account to calculate your binding length accurately.

### Do not do this

There are a bunch of tutorials out on the internet that show you how to sew on knit binding.
Many of those suggest something like _make the neck binding 90% of the length of the seam you are attaching it to_ (the percentage varies).

> This idea is that you would cut your binding, join its edges to form a closed loop, and then sew it to the opening. However, this is not the best method.

Reviewer 3: I have the same issue here as above, before it said the author of this documentation (I assume Joost wrote this) thinks this method is no good. Now the documentation reads as if this is _never_ the right method. I think people should feel free to use the method that works for them and this unequivocal language sends the opposite message. Perhaps we need to change this to 'we' rather than 'I' so it still signals that this is someone's opinion rather than solid fact.

Reviewer: What about if we have a section with `Alternative techniques`? It could include this one and others that may not be as reliable as this, which in itself is subjective.

A possible alternate approach to sidestep the length issue would be to attach the binding before you close the opening your binding goes in.
For example, on a T-shirt you would close one shoulder seam, attach the binding, then close the second shoulder seam.

However, that obviously means your shoulder seam would cut through your binding.

> So, this approach is also not desirable.

Reviewer 3: The same issue as earlier, this again changes the way the documentation lands with the reader.

### Instead, do this

1. Cut your binding exactly as long as the seam it needs to be sewn into. Not 90%, but 100%. This way, you know it's going to be too long, and that's what we want.
2. Mark the place you want your binding to be joined (say center back of the neckline) and place your binding 1 cm beyond this point.
3. Start sewing your binding about 3 cm or so from this point, and go all the way around. While you do so, make sure to adjust the stretch to whatever the curve requires. There are no tricks for this; you'll have to practice until it comes naturally to you.
4. When you make your way around and get close to the point you marked, stop about 3 cm before that. Now your entire binding is attached, apart from a 6 cm or so stretch at the back.
5. Pin both edges of your binding good sides together to form the binding into a closed loop, making it exactly as long as needed.

> 6. Cut off the excess binding, and sew the binding loop closed.

Reviewer 3: This part I think is the relevant part that we needed to clarify people's problems with the documentation.

7. Sew this remaining 6 cm or so binding loop to the garment.

This way, there is no guessing how long your binding should be, and the binding seam sits where you want it to sit.

> <Tip>

Reviewer 2: That's exactly the point that's being made here... the only thing we know for sure is that it shouldn't be _longer_ than the seam itself.

suboptimal distribution of binding in the opening.

### Method 2: Stretching method

1. Cut your binding exactly as long as the seam it needs to be sewn into. Not 90%, but 100%. This way, you know it's going to be too long, and that's what we want.
2. Mark the place you want your binding to be joined (say center back of the neckline) and place your binding 1 cm beyond this point.
3. Start sewing your binding about 3 cm or so from this point, and go all the way around. While you do so, make sure to adjust the stretch to whatever the curve requires. There are no tricks for this; you'll have to practice until it comes naturally to you.
4. When you make your way around and get close to the point you marked, stop about 3 cm before that. Now your entire binding is attached, apart from a 6 cm or so stretch at the back.
5. Pin both edges of your binding good sides together to form the binding into a closed loop, making it exactly as long as needed.
6. Cut off the excess binding, and sew the binding loop closed.
7. Sew this remaining 6 cm or so binding loop to the garment.

<Tip>

> While it is impossible to know the exact length of binding you will end

Reviewer 2: Can we move this tip up to step 3, which currently only says "you'll have to practice"? I think this will be more helpful.

Author: I moved the Tip up to Step 3.
